So let's see what else expressjs can do for us
and let's also start building a more exciting application then. So for this,
we want to handle different routes, different urls. To do that I'll
first of all remove our dummy middleware which is not doing anything
and this second one should only trigger for requests that go to just slash nothing.
Now how can we filter for such requests?
Well I mentioned that the use function here has multiple versions,
you can see that here for overloads,
so we basically have four different or five different ways of using that function.
You can see a great explanation in the official docs in the end, on expressjs.com
there I'm in the API reference for the version we're using here, the latest version
and there you find app.use where you find the explanation of how to use it.
Now don't be confused that this is only one definition instead of the five I've promised, the five
basically just is made up of different combinations,
so in the end, this is how you can use app.use.
You got an optional first argument which is some path and that already is what we're looking for,
this allows us to filter out certain requests,
however this works a bit different than our if statements did before
but I'll come back to that.
Then we have the callback
so basically the function that should be executed and we can have more than one of that callback, we
can have as many as we want,
we can also have multiple path filters here.
Now you can obviously read more in the docs here
but let's just use it and learn during the course. So we can add a path at the beginning,
for example just slash,
this however is the default by the way
and now we would handle this for just visiting slash right.
If I reload, we still see hello from express,
Now what happens if I for example enter /add-product?
We still see hello from express and we still see I'm in another middleware, so this middleware gets
executed for both slash and add product because this does not mean that the full path,
so the part after the domain has to be a slash but that it has to start with that.
Now of course every route starts with just a slash
and then we have different other criteria.
So what we can do is we can simply duplicate this and add it before this middleware and add
/add-product.
Now why before this middleware and not after it?
Because remember, the request goes through the file
from top to bottom and if we don't call next, it's not going to the next middleware.
Well I am not calling next here,
so in the end if we have /add-product, this middleware will be reached first
because top to bottom, add product will match this middleware
and since I don't call next, this middleware will never get a chance of handling that request even though
the filter here would have well, matched that request too.
So here if I just add the add product page like this and I save this, you will see that on
/add-product, we see the add product page and on any other path including random stuff or just slash nothing, you
see hello from express
and this is how we can use that middleware approach to control what is getting shown and the order
here as well as the fact whether we are calling next or not matters a lot. By the way
if you are sending a response, this is a good indication that you never want to call next too because
you don't want to execute any other response related code just as before with vanilla nodejs,
you don't want to send more than one response, this won't work and will result in an error.
So this is the code we can use here,
this is the code that allows us to route our requests into different middleware
and if we have a middleware that should be applied to all requests, we would simply add it on top of
all the other middlewares
and then add it like this. If we don't add a filter or a filter that matches all requests it should match,
then this middleware will always run first
and if we call the next function, well then of course the request will also be able to continue.
So if we have this middleware here which allows the request to continue and we have console log, this
always runs well with this code.
What we will get is that if I save this, if I reload here
and I also go to add product here,
we have this always run twice because well, this always runs,
that's just how it works.
So this is how the middleware works and how you can work with it to funnel your request into the right
place.